Patch 1 (#6243)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/silver/cf-2044G1.mdx

---
id: cf-2044G1
source: CF
title: Medium Demon Problem (easy version)
author: Arnav Gokhale
---

[Official Analysis (C++)](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/137306)

## Explanation

> First, let's take note of the structure of the graph. Every node has a singular outgoing edge, making this a functional graph. As a result, the graph consists of several connected components, each containing exactly one cycle, with all the nodes either in the cycle or eventually feeding into it.

Reviewer: more of a nitpick/good to note, but i think mentioning what a final resulting distribution looks like (each cycle node with exactly 1 plushie, rest 0) would prob make the explanation make more sense

> First, let's take note of the structure of the graph. Every node has a singular outgoing edge, making this a functional graph. As a result, the graph consists of several connected components, each containing exactly one cycle, with all the nodes either in the cycle or eventually feeding into it.

Reviewer 2: `of the structure of the graph` reads a bit weird -- i suggest ``of the graph's structure``.

> First, let's take note of the structure of the graph. Every node has a singular outgoing edge, making this a functional graph. As a result, the graph consists of several connected components, each containing exactly one cycle, with all the nodes either in the cycle or eventually feeding into it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, let's take note of the graph's structure. Every node has exactly one outgoing edge, making this a functional graph. Thus, the graph consists of several connected components, each containing exactly one cycle, with all the nodes either in the cycle or eventually feeding into it.
```

> Notice that if a node is not in the cycle, the process will not become stable until that node's plushie reaches the cycle. Consider the nodes along a path leading into a cycle. On some day, the spiders will pass their plushie (if they have one) to $r_i$. However, some of the spiders that send a plushie will not receive one in return, causing the system to have changed numbers. Once every plushie reaches a cycle, each spider will both receive and give a plushie, keeping the system stable.

Reviewer 2: 1. "On some day" -> "On some year" to match problem terminology
2. Be explicit about what spiders will not receive one in return.  Perhaps mention that each year the only spiders with plushies get closer to the cycle?

> Therefore, the question can be reduced into finding the maximum distance from any node to it's respective cycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, let's take note of the structure of the graph. Every node has a singular outgoing edge, making this a functional graph. As a result, the graph consists of several connected components, each containing exactly one cycle, with all the nodes either in the cycle or eventually feeding into it.

Notice that if a node is not in the cycle, the process will not become stable until that node's plushie reaches the cycle. Consider the nodes along a path leading into a cycle. On some day, the spiders will pass their plushie (if they have one) to $r_i$. However, some of the spiders that send a plushie will not receive one in return, causing the system to have changed numbers. Once every plushie reaches a cycle, each spider will both receive and give a plushie, keeping the system stable.

Therefore, the question can be reduced to finding the maximum distance from any node to its respective cycle.
```

also, would be good to the throwing away when > 1 part, since that means that in the end a distribution will just be 1 plushie in every cycle node

> Therefore, the question can be reduced to finding the maximum distance from any node to its respective cycle.

Reviewer 2: ... plus 2, explain why.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N)$

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

```cpp

#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
void solve() {
	int n;
	cin >> n;
	vector<int> a(n);

> 	vector<vector<int>> c(n);

Reviewer: IMO i think `r` (since that's what problem uses) and `rev` or smth to indicate it's a reversed adj graph would be nice

	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		cin >> a[i];
		a[i]--;
		c[a[i]].push_back(i);
	}

	vector<int> b(n);

> 	vector<bool> v(n);

Reviewer: idk what b and v mean (ok i can infer from context v is vis but i have no clue what b is)

prefer to rename these, doesn't have to be super long but something that gives some semblance of an idea on what it is

	int ans = 2;

	// Runs a DFS to go out of the node finding max path length

> 	auto dfs = [&](auto &&self, int nd) -> int {

Reviewer: `node` is more understandable than `nd` surely

		int mx = 0;

> 		vis[nd] = true;

Reviewer 3: general rule of thumb is that you can expand all variable names, since readability is the goal here

		for (int i = 0; i < c[nd].size(); i++) {
			if (count[c[nd][i]] != 2) { mx = max(mx, self(self, c[nd][i])); }

> 		}

Reviewer: why not use for-each iteration? imo that looks a lot cleaner

		return mx + 1;
	};

	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		if (!vis[i]) {
			int nd = i;
			vector<int> nodes;

			// Get all the nodes in a cycle
			while (count[nd] != 2) {
				vis[nd] = true;
				count[nd]++;
				if (count[nd] == 2) nodes.push_back(nd);
				nd = a[nd];
			}

			// Run a DFS on the nodes in the cycle getting the max path length into node
			// nodes[i]

> 			for (int i = 0; i < tm.size(); i++) {

Reviewer: comment got turned kinda weird, also for-each would be nicer imo

(also what does tm mean ngl i thought oof temu at first glance)

Author: wtf i changed the tm :|
